Thirty years ago, Covid-Omega swept across the world. The global economy locked down immediately, but only the island of Ireland remained untouched; shockingly, everybody else - was wiped out. This is what we've managed to achieve over the last 30 years and what we hope for the future.

The first week we called: "The shock". During the first 24 hours, many of the realisations happened, or so we thought. The first thing people noticed was how they couldn't reach their relatives and friends from abroad. At first, everybody thought that there was a problem with communication with the outside world, however, that quickly was proved wrong, due to all the servers outside Ireland, maintaining their work, however with that there was also something that slipped by the mind of almost everybody, except a select few, which weren't herd due to the biggest crisis happening at that time. That small discreet process happening was the extremely slow decrease in performance of almost everything.

However, that was only the beginning. After that, all shipments disappeared. At hour 36 from the start of this madness, the prime minister issued a lockdown(an immediate stop to all travelling to and from Ireland with special permission to the military to take down any ship or plane approaching the country), rationing the food and water resources as they were rapidly ending, and a new energy plan, which in general meant a stop to all power except for an hour a day(later we named it the golden hour). 

Due to those actions, our first instinct was that we were getting attacked, that we were at war. Another 24 hours passed, but no sign of an attacker, all communication wasn't disabled, but no one answered from the other side. We started living in a ghost town. Nobody left their houses, except for a small period each week to take provisions(Only the necessities). Even though we still could communicate freely within Ireland, no one was doing it because everyone strived to use as little electricity as possible, so their phones would survive until the next golden hour.

Twelve more hours later, we received news on some loud sirens on some strange-looking busses (installed specifically for that purpose), about a ship which crashed near Wicklow, no further information was provided, however, we were promised updates. 12 more hours passed until more news arrived. Some of us bearly slept, and others slept in shifts. It was important not to miss a message. The second message was much longer. It went over all the items aboard the ship as well as the bodies found. At that time we weren't aware that the announcement was about people who were no longer with us. Besides the people in "custody", the announcement asked us to continue to stay put and follow the already determent food and general supplies schedule. We didn't have a choise, but in all fairness we didn't really mind it, because it gave us a sense of security, which at that time we much neaded.







the import is damaged -> hunger
economy breakdown

depression -> suicide rates increase

more natural resources

rotten flesh -> more viruses -> after fertilizer
immunity (maze runner)
new virus(infects animals)

environment slowly getting better because of the decrease in production
spreading of people -> new methods of transport -> space 
better life

1/4
