“Thirty years ago, Covid-Omega swept across the world. The global economy locked down immediately, but only the island of Ireland remained untouched; shockingly, everybody else - was wiped out. This is what we've managed to achieve over the last 30 years and what we hope for the future.” 
 
Those 30 years were one of the hardest in our lives. So many things happened that we never thought they will, and we never imagine them even in our nightmares. 
 
The first week we named: “The shock”. During the first 24 hours, many noticed how they couldn't reach their relatives and friends from abroad. At first, everybody thought that there was a problem with communication with the outside world, however, that quickly was proved wrong, due to all the servers outside Ireland, maintaining their work, however with that there was also something that slipped by the mind of almost everybody, except a select few, which weren't heard due to the biggest crisis happening at that time. That small discreet process happening was the extremely slow decrease in performance of almost everything. 
 
However, that was only the beginning. After that, all shipments disappeared. At hour 36 from the start of this madness, the prime minister issued a lockdown (an immediate stop to all travelling to and from Ireland with special permission to the military to take down any ship or plane approaching the country), rationing the food and water resources as they were rapidly ending, and a new energy plan, which in general meant a stop to all power except for an hour a day (later it was named the golden hour).  
 
Due to those actions, our first instinct was that we were getting attacked, that we were at war. Another 24 hours passed, but no sign of an attacker, not all communication was disabled, but no one answered from the other side. We started living in a ghost town. Nobody left their houses, except for a small period each week to take provisions (Only the necessities). Even though we still could communicate freely within Ireland, no one was doing it because everyone strived to use as little electricity as possible, so their phones would survive until the next golden hour. 
 
12 more hours later, we received news of some loud sirens on some strange-looking busses (installed specifically for that purpose), about a ship which crashed near Wicklow, no further information was provided, however, we were promised updates regarding the situation. 12 more hours passed until the promised news arrived. Some of us barely slept, while others slept in shifts. It was important not to miss a message. The second message was much longer. It went over all the items found aboard the ship as well as the status of the crew. At that time, we believed that those people were currently in a shelter of some sort, but the reality was that they were just bodies, deprived of their souls, hidden in a lab somewhere, to be used as lab rats, in hope of understanding what is upon us. The announcement ended with the voice telling us to stay put and follow the already determent schedule. We didn't have a choice, but in all fairness, we didn't mind it, because it gave us a sense of security, which we all appreciated even if we didn’t show it at the time. 
 
At that point, around 3 days passed, and there were still no signs of any incoming danger. That made everybody at least a slight bit more comfortable, which then allowed everyone to take a step back and start asking themselves questions regarding their current situation. Everybody had an opinion, but they couldn’t share it, because there were many other better usages of their electricity. 
 
12 more hours passed, after which the later-named “Callings” started. They were short announcements per region only containing a name and an address followed by the same instruction every time: “Please go to your nearest ER canter”. I remember what happened there as I was one of the first people called there. The town looked like it came out of a horror movie. Nobody was outside. The only people you could see were people hiding in their homes only peeking through the curtains for a second. 
 
As I entered the hospital, the atmosphere went from too quiet to too loud, as everywhere, there were people with gas masks running from one place to another. Some had guns and patrolled the hospital, others had blood vials and after some observation, I determined that they went into different rooms, and sometime later left with a vial filled with blood, which they brought to one common room. 
 
Soon they called me into one of those many rooms. I was hesitant for a second, but I didn’t have a choice. As expected, a nurse came with an empty vile and asked to take some blood, so that they can take some tests. I was curious as to why, they needed my blood specifically, so I asked the nurse, but she only smiled and said that at the current time they are unable to say anything specific, except that the government requested some blood tests to be conducted by randomly selected people in each county. 
 
As I went back home, instead of peeking, people began to stare at me like I was a monster. When I got home and closed the door behind me, I felt relief. In that small window in which I wasn’t worrying I began to think about what just happened: Why was everything so strange? What is happening here? After a little while, I got tired and went for a quick nap only to be woken up by the sound of the siren again. It bared the first good news since the start of all of this. The voice invited us all to go outside and meet at the nearest park in about two hours. 
 
When I went there at the appointed time nobody knew why the sudden change of heart and why they couldn’t use the sirens. In a few minutes, a man started talking on a microphone, explaining that a new mutation of covid swept the world. The new variant was extremely contagious and extremely dangerous with an undefine mortality rate as of that moment, however by some miracle, everybody who currently resides in Ireland has immunity to it, the origin of which is unknown. Everyone experienced mixed feelings about this event. Everyone was left surprised and wondering the same 3 things: Are there other people, who are also immune to the virus? Does the fact that my relatives are not responding mean that they are dead? What should we do now? 
 
Over the span of the next month or so there was developed a next plan regarding how we as humans to continue to live and don’t starve, freeze, or dehydrate to death. Had to find out whether we could live in Ireland and survive. After we tried the only possible way to check (by sending someone to Britain and back) we found out that everybody there was dead, but that our immunity still worked. 
 
After we found that out, we created a plan moving forward. Its core idea was to explore the world documenting any survivors. To achieve that we were divided into groups of around 35 000 people (7 000 000 / 200), with an appointed leader, which was in direct contact with Ireland. As for how people were divided: Every group was divided into subgroups. Each one of those had a special purpose. For example, there was a subgroup of mechanics. Their job was to repair all equipment that wasn’t working. Another subgroup was botanists. Their job was to fix all food plantations and different trees and flowers. Many people however were just a working force. They took the jobs of the people before them. As for the dead bodies, people were doing that as well. Collecting the rotting flesh and putting it into a big compost, which after a while they used as a fertilizer. There was also a very small group of people called: “Counters”. Their job was to account for every dead person and to see how many are missing, with the hope of finding them, which there was a team for as well. 
 
For the next year, the plan stayed the same. We followed the instructions. I was in the software repair group and was sent to Australia. Everything gradually started to work again but at a quarter of the original speed. To be fair we didn’t need more. We produced plenty for our needs. Everything was going smoothly, with a plan to repair everything and make it work at 25% by the end of the 8th year, starting from the incident. 
 
After the 8th year, everything was repaired to a usable state. No one was left hungry or thirsty or without electricity because now we had it available everywhere. There was a decrease however in the usage of gas to only the necessities requiring explicitly the use of gas or oil in general. Due to the small population left alive, everyone was using a renewable source of electricity and new infrastructure was built to accommodate the production and transport of electricity across the whole world. 
 
That is pretty much all there is to it. Those are all major events that happened in the last 30 years. As per the text, the first week was the worst as we had to break from our patterns and blindly follow rules, but as we got the hang of things everything started to slowly improve. I still miss many of the people I knew before that terrible event, but I don’t think anyone could have done anything about it beforehand and the counters still have people missing. Hopefully, they are still alive, but experts say that it is very unlikely for a person to live that long without a source of food. However, I have hope. As to where life will go from now on. I don’t know but hopefully, peace continues to prosper throughout all the land. About that however I am not so optimistic, but no one knows what the future holds for us. There is only one way to truly know. 

Viktor Ilchev  